Time is one of the most important thing in this globalized world
Even a millisecond is essential in our dynamic day-to-day life.
Within a blink of eyes, there can be a drastic change in life.

Thus in recent years, traffic congestion prediction has led to a growing research area, 
especially of machine learning of Artificial Intelligence(AI).
With the introduction of big data by stationary sensors or probe vehicle data and 
the development of new AI models in the last few decades, this research are has expanded
extensively.
Traffic congestion, especially short-term traffic congestion prediction is made by 
evaluating different traffic parameters.
Most of the researches focus on historical data in forecasting traffic congestion.
However, a few articles made real-time traffic congestion prediction.
This paper systematically summarises the existing research conducted by applying the various
methodologies of AI, notably different machine learning models.
The paper accumulates the models under respective branches of AI, and the strength and weakness of the 
models are summarised.



Introduction
In this current era of big data, AI is one of the most important branch of Computer Science and Technology.
AI was born 50 years ago and came a long way, making encouraging process, especially in machine learning,
data mining, computer vision, expert systems, natural language processing, robotics, and related applications.

probabilistic models, deep learning, artificial neural network systems, game theory.


Recently, .....has been the leading research area in transportation engineering, esp in traffic congestion prediction.

Traffic congestion has a direct and indirect impact on a country's economy and its dweller's health.

According to Ali et al. [2], traffic congestion causes Pak Rs. 1 million every day in terms of opportunity level as well.
Time loss, especially during peak hours, mental stress, and the added pollution to the global warming are also some imp factors
caused due to traffic congestion.


Ensuring economic growth and the road user's comfort are the two requirements for the development of a country,
which is impossible without smooth traffic flow. With the development in the transportation sector by collecting traffic information, authorrities 
 are putting more attention on traffic congestion monitoring. 
Traffic congestion prediction provides the authorities with the required time to plan in the alllocation of resources to make 
the journey smooth for travellers.
Traffic congestion prediction problem discusssed in this paper can be defined as an estimation of parameters related to traffic congestion into the short-term 
future, e.g. 15 minutes to a few hours by applying different AI methodologies by using collected traffic data.
There are usually five parameters to evaluate, including traffic volume, traffic density, occupancy, traffic congestion index, and travel time 
while monitoring and predicting traffic congestions.
Depending on the nature of the collected data, a variety of AI approaches are applied to evaluate the congestion parameters.
This article systematically discusses the models and their advantage and disadvantages.
The primary motivation of this review is to gather the articles focusing solely on traffic congestion prediction models.
The keywords used in the search process included "traffic congestion prediction" OR "traffic congestion estimation"

A general layout of the prediction approaches is provided in Section 2. The data collection sources and congestion forecasting models
are explained in Section 3-6 and they provide the overall discussion and concluding remarks.


